A New Beginning

Captain Jean-Luc Picard sat alone in his office aboard the Enterprise-E. Only a few short months ago, his vessel and two other Starfleet vessels from an Alternate Universe had appeared in the universe he was in today. He remembered his conversation with Fleet Admiral Necheyev about the topic, Commander Eddington had grilled him for over an hour about the Dominion and if they could be a possible threat to their universe. Picard had informed them that if they ever entered the Gamma Quadrant via the Bajoran Wormhole to be on the lookout for any possible Dominion ships. The Enterprise’s computer had been downloaded into this universe’s Starfleet LCARS Database for further analysis. Necheyev wanted to even change the Enterprises’s prefix from I.S.S. to U.S.S. in order to fit their regulations, but Picard refused the order. The Enterprise was the only thing he had from that other universe and he wasn’t about to let someone destroy his memories.

The doorbell chimed informing Picard that someone wanted to speak with him. Captain Picard looked up from his desk. “Come.”

The doors opened to allow an ensign into the room. Picard didn’t recognize her at all. The ensign was wearing a red uniform and held a PADD in her hand.

Picard stood up and held out a hand. “Welcome to the Enterprise.”

The ensign shyly took Picard’s hand and returned the handshake. “I was told to report here first. I’m Ensign Carol Picard, my father was the captain of the Enterprise. Well the other one that was destroyed before you arrived here.”

Picard looked to Carol, she looked like she was straight from the academy. If it were a few months ago, he would have been looking for trust and loyalty from Carol. Ever since he crossed into this universe with the help of the Q that referred to himself as J R, he had almost forgotten his command training. This new Starfleet that he had to become use to didn’t allow certain pleasantries Picard had always enjoyed in his universe.

All Picard could do was nod his head, “I’m very sorry for your loss ensign, if there’s anything I can do let me know.”

The ensign handed the PADD to Picard which he took and studied. “I have orders to report aboard the Enterprise to begin my tour of duty.”

Picard looked to the ensign with disbelief. No one had informed him that he would be adding new crewmembers to his vessel. “I don’t understand.”

Carol looked into Picard’s eyes, trying to tell if she could see any of her father in him. “I went to Admiral Necheyev directly and requested this posting. I wanted to get to know you sir, if that’s all right.”

Picard’s smile went away quickly. “Ensign… I’m probably very different from your father. You will notice various differences between us.”

Carol nodded her head “Yes you’re right, my father would have never spoken to me or allowed me into his ready room. You’ve already shown yourself to be an honorable man, and I want to get to know you better.”

“You do. Well…” Picard struggled. His instincts were to kill her, but Starfleet wouldn’t allow it. He shook her hand again. “Welcome aboard the Enterprise. I’ll have you assigned to quarters.”

Ensign Picard smiled, “Oh, thank you dad… I mean sir.”

“Dismissed.” Picard said smiling. In a way he now had a daughter. He was both sad and pleased that someone looked up to him like the ensign did. As he thought for a moment, the only conclusion Picard could come up with was that he wanted nothing to do with her.

* * *

Two Months Later

“Attention on deck!” A young female ensign shouted in an authoritative tone. A room of one hundred fifty men and women stood at attention. The room became silent as Captain Jean-Luc Picard, the Enterprises commanding officer, entered the lounge known to the crew as Ten-Forward. Picard looked across the room noting that he recognized most of these people’s faces. And why shouldn’t he? That select group of officers had served under his command for over the past twelve or so years. He recalled some words of the famous Captain Kirk “we have been through death and life together.” So it was with this crew. Picard was use to enjoy punishing officers that were disobedient to his commands. Some officers Picard personally ejected into space, others he delegated the authority to a select group of colleagues and close friends, his senior staff. Picard walked over to the front middle of the room where a podium had been placed. As Picard stood there he picked up a PADD and read the information to himself. He then turned his attention back to his officers.

“At ease.” Picard said as he thought over a few things in his mind. It had been over five months since his vessel crossed over into this universe. His universe was judged to be corrupt and destroyed by the Q Continuum through their purification process. Picard and the crew of the Enterprise still, at times, found it difficult to make the transition from their way of life to how this universe functioned and operated. For most of the crew, rules changed too abruptly. What was allowed in their universe was no longer tolerated in this new environment. Picard tried to smooth things over with the head of Starfleet Command, Admiral Layton, but was unsuccessful on many attempts. Starfleet wanted to mold the Enterprise and her crew into their style of operations. Picard didn’t want to completely conform his ways to a Starfleet he didn’t know or trust. Picard looked back down to the PADD. It contained a short list of more rules Starfleet wanted his crew to follow. He pressed a few sequences into a keypad clearing the information and set it all aside. ‘Ridiculous’ Picard thought to himself. ‘They don’t need to hear any of that nonsense today!’ Another PADD was waiting to be read. Picard picked it up and skimmed through it almost chuckling at the information he saw.

“Looks like Starfleet is finally sending us on a mission.” Picard said remembering several missions command could have used the Enterprise on but chose other inferior ships with inexperienced crews. “They want us to patrol the Badlands for a short period of time.” He paused as he felt the room give a sigh of disappointment. The Badlands, a desolate place full of plasma storms and one of the most boring places in the entire Alpha Quadrant. The Enterprise wouldn’t be seeing any action for a while. Picard could feel hatred from his officers. Their anger was directed towards Starfleet Command and the bureaucrats who ran it. He was not pleased with this new assignment either. “I realize how difficult this is for you to accept, the floor is open, feel free to express yourselves.”

An officer near the back raised a hand. “Sir from reports I’ve ran across there haven’t been any problems in the Badlands for over a year or so. Why would they do this to us?”

Picard looked towards him. “It’s quite simple, Starfleet doesn’t trust us. They don’t know what to expect and are afraid.” He looked to his senior staff and noticed the expressions on their faces. They weren’t happy with the truth, but it needed to be said. “We won’t allow that to stop us though. I know what this crew is capable of and so do you. This is the finest ship in the fleet with the finest crew ever to be assembled. So what if Starfleet wants us to prove this. I know we can and we will. By the time we are finished with them, they’ll know not to cross us.” Picard paused and watched as crewmembers became motivated. This short assignment would soon be complete and they would move on to bigger and better things. They were not prepared to face the test. Picard tapped his commbadge opening a communication channel. “Picard to bridge.”

“Bridge here” answered a rough male voice.

“Set a course for the Badlands, warp eight. Engage.”

The lieutenant was hesitant “Sir, Starfleet regulations specify a warp five limitation unless there is an emergency.”

Picard smiled. “Very well. Computer transport Lieutenant Allen to holding cell three.” He paused. “Let’s try this again. Ensign Christensen, you are promoted to Lieutenant. Now please comply with my orders.”

“Yes sir.” The voice replied in what Picard assumed to be a cheerful tone.

“Dismissed.” Picard said as the Enterprise leapt into warp towards the stormy area known as the Badlands. At his command the room emptied leaving Picard alone with his senior officers.

“We’re on our way.” Tom Riker said as he gazed out the window to see streaks of stars fly by.

Picard nodded his head. “Yes. To a dull dismal assignment.”

As they stood there looking out the window, Guinan approached carrying a tray which held a bottle with seven glasses on it. The glasses were filled with a deep green liquid. “Alorean Ale?” She said offering each officer a glass.

When they each had a glass of ale, Picard offered a toast. “Here’s to the finest crew in the fleet. May this new chapter in our lives begin with peace.”

Guinan looked to Picard. Her glare communicated to him that she wanted to discuss something in private. They had known each other for several years, a friendship which was beyond most friendships. She would always have Picards ear if she needed to talk, and the reverse was the same.

Picard caught her glare and nodded his head. Turning to his senior officers, he dismissed them. “Report to your duty posts, I’ll be up to the bridge momentarily. And try to say out of trouble.” The six officers left Ten-Forward obeying Picard’s orders.

As the room emptied Guinan walked closer to Picard. “Have you spoken with her yet?”

“There’s nothing to discuss.” He replied in a cold serious tone that could freeze water.

“She’s your daughter.” Guinan replied. “I can’t believe you would act in such a manner.”

Picard shook his head. “She’s not my daughter, that was another Picard, not me. I don’t know that woman, I don’t want to know her either.” Picard paused. “Guinan you’ve been bothering me about this for over a month now, ever since I told you she was on board, when are you going to give up?”

“Never.” Guinan said in a stern but rather calm voice. “That Picard you speak of is gone. His ship and crew disappeared so you could take its place. There are certain things that you must see to.”

Picard again shook his head. “No I cannot. I will not. I don’t need to get mixed up in a life that I neither know or care about.” He Paused. “Let the child’s mother take care of her.”

Guinan sighed, ‘how could he be so difficult’ she thought to herself. “She’s not a child, her mother is dead. You’re all she has left.”

As they argued, the doors to Ten-Forward opened allowing a tall slender beautiful brunette haired woman to enter. Ensign Picard looked to her father and slowly approached the conversation.

“Go talk to her, she needs you.” Guinan added.

As Carol came closer, she stood in front of Picard not knowing what to do exactly. At their first meeting, she thought he was rather warm and kind. That had changed quickly after she tried to contact him on several occasions only to find the computer helping him avoid her. Picard resembled her father, but he was much different. Sure her real father and this Picard would avoid talking to her, but still memories of that first day came back to her. There was something about him that said yes, he was different and that he cared. It was up to her to access that side of this Picard. She stood at attention. “Hello again sir.”

Picard stared her down looking at her face. He viewed Carol as just another addition to his crew from a universe that didn’t trust him. He turned to leave, and with an impatient voice replied. “I don’t have time for this right now. Report to your post.” Picard exited Ten-Forward in a quick hurried pace.

Carol turned to Guinan, there were tears streaming down her face. “He doesn’t care.” As the emotions began to flow, she felt helpless. Carol felt like a child lost in the woods full of ferocious animals.

Guinan put her arms around Carols sobbing body trying to comfort her. “It will take time, he’ll come around you’ll see.” She paused wondering herself if Picard would accept another mans daughter as his own. “Things will get better.”

Commander Tom Riker sat in the Observation Lounge aboard the Sovereign-Class Starship Enterprise. At the moment he was reading over a security file of his counterparts in this universe. Two files were displayed on a PADD he held. they were of two Starfleet Officers named Riker. Above both files were the words deceased. He was finally the only William Thomas Riker in a universe that he still didn’t know. For curious purposes Riker had read through several files trying to pinpoint where his counterparts fit into the picture, but couldn’t grasp a hold of everything. He didn’t need or want to conform to what a universe knew or thought about him. What others thought didn’t matter to Tom, he only wanted to do what was required of him and get his life back to normal or as close to normal as he could get. As Tom sat there thinking, he could only wonder what the future had in store for him and the crew of the Enterprise. For most of the crew, a different universe cleared their slate, they were allowed to begin a new life. They were given a second chance at things. Most people would die to have an opportunity like that, and it was handed to the Enterprise free of charge. Riker concentration was broken as a commline activated.

“Picard to Riker.”

Tom tapped his commbadge “Riker here sir.” He set the PADD down on the conference table so he could give full attention to his commanding officer.

“Come to my ready room., I need to speak with you a moment.”

Riker stood from his chair, “Yes sir.” He replied while exiting the lounge. As Riker crossed the bridge he looked around at the officers stationed there. The bridge crew looked bored waiting for something exciting to happen. Soon he was standing in front of the doors to Picard’s ready room. Riker pressed the door chime, and from inside the room he could hear Picard’s voice give authorization for the doors to open. Riker stepped inside the dark ready room and stood in front of Picard’s desk.

Picard looked up from a monitor and gestured to a chair. “Have a seat commander.” Riker did as requested and sat down on a chair nearest the desk. “I’ve been looking over our mission assignment.” Picard continued. “It’s pretty cut and dry, at first glance. But I became curious as to what has occurred in the past here.” He paused, then turned his desk monitor around so Riker could view the information. On the screen was a rotating Galaxy-Class Starship. “The Starship Cocoa was sent to patrol this region of space a little over ten months ago. She was never heard from since. Starfleet never received any reports from the Cocoa.”

“Really?” Riker said sitting forward.

Picard nodded his head. “Uh huh, plus command never sent out a vessel to search for their lost ship. She’s still out there… somewhere.” He paused “What do you think our odds are for finding the Cocoa?”

Riker rubbed his chin lightly with his right hand. “Sounds like an interesting proposal. If we did, Starfleet Command would be pleased with us for brining a ship back to them.”

“Then it’s settled. Remember not to discuss any of this with command. They don’t know we have this information.” Picard said with a smile. His crew would now actually have something to look forward to.

Riker nodded and then with a confused look inquired. “How did you find out about it?”

Picard chuckled. “Let’s just say this universe’s security protocols don’t even compare to ours.” He picked up a PADD and handed it to Riker. “Here are the statistics for the Cocoa, take them to Commander Data down on Deck 20. Have him enter the information into the computer and devise a search pattern. Dismissed.”

Riker took the PADD and exited the ready room. Once he was on the bridge, he walked to a nearby turbolift that would take him to Main Engineering.

“Engineering.” Riker said and the lift began to move downward. When it reached Deck 4 the lift stopped and the doors opened allowing a tall female to enter. Picards daughter.

“Deck 14.” Carol said and the lift started moving again.

Riker looked to Carol out of the corner of his eye, trying not to stare. He had heard rumors and stories of how she had been treated by her biological father. The things he had heard, Riker didn’t like. After a few moments He broke the silence. Extending a hand, Riker introduced himself. “Hello, I’m Thomas Riker the First Officer.” He smiled hoping to receive some kind of response out of Carol.

Carol shook Riker’s hand not trusting him. “My name is Carol.” She replied, hoping the conversation would end. Carol really didn’t know whom she could trust among the people of this crew. They were all strangers to her and she was a little afraid.

“It’s good to meet you.” Riker continued. “Just to let you know, if you need anything, anything at all, feel free to contact me.”

Carol half smiled trying to be polite. Soon enough the turbolift stopped on Deck 14. As Carol stepped off the lift she felt a little courage build inside and turned to face Riker. “Thank you.” She said as she walked down the hallway to her quarters.

The turbolift doors closed again and Riker rode the rest of the way to Engineering in silence thinking about the person he had just met.

Engineering was quiet. It was not the usual busy place Commander Geordi LaForge, the Enterprises Chief Engineer, was use to. Of course being in a universe of peace and not of war had a lot to do with it. LaForge stood on the second deck overlooking the entire complex. He loved to simply stand and listen to the low hum of the warp core. LaForge enjoyed not being in a war for once, he could finally take the time to enjoy his work. It felt a little strange at times for him not being rushed or hurried to complete a project before danger would come, but he enjoyed it. As LaForge stood there watching the core, he looked down to see Commander Riker enter and walk directly over to where Commander Data was standing next to a main console.

“Commander” Riker said when the android officer turned to face him. “Put his information into the computer and devise a search pattern.” Riker handed Data the PADD that Picard had given him.

Data looked over the information and turned back to the computer to begin his task. “I should be finished with this within the hour.” He said as he continued to work on the project.

Riker walked towards the warp core and took a few minutes to think. He was excited that they would be going on a mission to search after a vessel that Command had lost. He was ready to show up this universe at any cost, was ready to prove that the Enterprise was nothing to toy with, that they were a good strong respectable group of people. Riker had been on such missions before. He had been in situations where his ship took the initiative to find other vessels, and then have that mission blow up in his face; both literally and figuratively. He didn’t want that to happen here.

“What’s up?” LaForge said as he climbed down the ladder to join Riker near the Warp Core.

Riker looked to LaForge and smiled hesitantly. “Not much. Just the usual.”

LaForge nodded his head. “You’re not having a surprise inspection, are you?”

Riker shook his head. “Nope. Wouldn’t dare do that after what the Davis Fleet Yards did to you.” He paused. “You’re still angry with them aren’t you.”

LaForge smiled. “Nothing a photon torpedo couldn’t fix. I still can’t believe they had the nerve to do that.” He recalled how the engineering team stationed to the Davis Fleet Yards, in orbit of Saturn, had come to the ship to do a surprise inspection on the Enterprise and her crew. When asked who ordered the inspection, they ignored the Enterprises crew even Captain Picard; claiming they had orders direct from Admiral Layton. It took LaForge over a month to undo all of the ‘upgrades’ they did to the Enterprises system. Sure they called them upgrades, but in actuality it was a major downgrade. LaForge was glad when they left his Engine room and went back to their station.

“Did Starfleet ever find that crew?” Riker asked.

LaForge’s facial expression went blank. “Nope. And if you ask me, they’re better off where they ended up. That will teach them to mess with my engine room.” Geordi didn’t like to refer to himself as violent, but he did have a temper; and that temper always managed to make itself known when something happened that he didn’t like. “So, do you think we’re going to have success on this mission?”

Riker looked to LaForge, “I think we might.”

“Do you think that ship is still out there? There have been a few ships in the Badlands over the past six years. The Tampa, the Voyager, and now the Cocoa.” He paused, knowing that he was opening a door that was waiting for a line of questioning. “Starfleet never did find the Tampa, or the Voyager… Do you think we’ll be able to find the Cocoa?”

“How did you know about that information? I just barely gave it to Commander Data, and even then I didn’t explain anything to him.” Riker said in shock.

LaForge smiled again. “Who do you think the captain asked to break into Starfleet Computers for him? He informed me of his plan to break into their computer system over four months ago.”

Riker nodded. “Of course. I should have seen that one coming.” He walked over to a wall and studied a readout monitor concerning the Enterprises warp matrix. “Impressive job. This vessel’s running at 99.47% of peak efficiency, that’s the best it’s been in a long time.”

“It’s been a while since I had the opportunity to calibrate the warp core and engines properly. We’ve always been in the middle of some conflict or another.” He looked at the panel with a sense of accomplishment. It had taken LaForge a while to calibrate the engines to his liking, for once he didn’t have to worry about an enemy ship engaging the Enterprise in battle. “So, do you think we should begin combat simulations?” He said, changing the subject from the engines to something a little more interesting for Riker.

“What’s that suppose to mean?” Riker asked a little puzzled.

“Even if we do find them, you don’t expect us to waltz in there and simply hall that ship out of there. The Cocoa hasn’t been in contact with Starfleet Command in a long time. There has to be some kind of force stopping them; and we’ve got to be ready for that force when we come across it.”

“He is correct commander.” Data said as he approached his comrades. “From what information we do have, the Cocoa was subjected to a high energy field of some kind while it was making sensor scans of the Badlands. It is possible that energy field could have been the weapons system of an enemy vessel.” He handed the PADD to Riker. “I’ve devised a search pattern according to their last known location.”

Riker accepted the PADD and looked it over. “Now all we have to do is get there.” He looked to LaForge. “I’ll inform the captain of your idea, I’m sure he’ll approve. Begin working on a simulation in Holodeck 3, I’ll meet with you this evening at 21:00 hours to check it out.” He started to walk towards the turbolift. “Now if you’ll excuse me, I’ve got something to take care of.”

* * *

Deck 14 was pretty quiet. Since the war was over, most of the decks on the ship weren’t busy full of people running trying to get to their duty posts; it was a pleasant change for all. As Riker walked down the long hallway, he could only feel a certain sense of peace mixed with stress. An unfamiliar combination, it was usually stress mixed with even more stress. As he neared a crewmen’s quarters, Riker pressed the door chime. Beep. Beep. But there was no answer to his call. Riker activated the door chime again. Beep. Beep. Still no answer. He tapped his commbadge “Computer, identify location of Ensign Carol Picard.”

The computer beeped for a few moments checking the internal scanners. “Ensign Carol Picard is on Deck 11 Section 24 Alpha.”

Riker nodded his head. “Holodeck 3. What on earth is she doing there?”

The computer thought Riker’s question was directed to it and responded. “Unknown.”

Riker cocked his head to one side and laughed a little. ‘You never change, do you’ he thought to himself. “What is the status of the Holodeck Safeties?”

“Holodeck Safeties are at normal settings.”

A look of concern mounted on Riker’s face. “You mean they’re deactivated?”

“Affirmative.”

“Computer, activate a site to site transport into Holodeck 3.” Riker said, as his heart began to pump faster.

“Stand by… Site to site transport initiated.”

Inside Holodeck 3, Commander Riker re-materialized to find a replication of a runabout going through the Badlands. Ensign Picard was at the helm piloting the vessel carefully, and quickly, around plasma storms and other anomalies that got in her way. Riker watched as she managed to avoid several streams of plasma energy allowing the runabout to complete its mission. He could only admire the courage the young lady had. Even though it was a simulation, the safeties weren’t activated which meant that one wrong move and she could be injured at any moment. Riker decided it was time to stop her fun, for a while.

“Computer, freeze program.” Riker said making the simulation freeze in place.

Carol turned in her chair wondering what was going on. “What the…” Upon noticing Commander Riker, she stopped mid sentence and went to attention. “Commander.”

Riker stepped forward towards the ensign. “At ease ensign, it’s all right I’m not going to bite.” He walked over to the helm console and looked over the readouts. “I’m glad I came when I did, you were about to come upon a Dominion base. You’re lucky you didn’t come across any vessels.”

Carol shook her head. “The who?”

Riker looked to the ceiling, ‘story time’ he thought. “It’s a long story, too long to even bother with.” He looked around the simulation taking in everything remembering the last time he had accessed that same program. “What are you doing here?”

“My duty shift was over, I couldn’t sleep and so I decided to get some extra flight hours in.” Carol answered.

“You might have taken the opportunity to turn on the safeties.” Riker said with a glare in his eye. “I’m glad you didn’t get hurt, that would have been a fun story to tell the captain.” He sat down in the chair. “Computer, engage Holodeck Safeties in program Riker 31 Alpha 4.”

“Holodeck Safeties engaged.” The computer replied with a calm voice.

“What are you really doing here?” Riker asked.

Carol picked up a PADD off one of the computer consoles. “I came across this program while I was doing some maintenance, and decided to check it out. I wanted to further my skills, I always like a challenge. Besides, we’re going into the Badlands, right?”

Riker nodded. “Yes.”

“Well, you’re going to need a good pilot, aren’t you?”

“What makes you think that pilot is you?” He asked, wondering what she was getting at.

“I’ve looked across all of the personnel records I could get a hold of for the crew of this vessel. And besides you, I’m the best pilot Captain Picard’s got.” She thumbed through a list of names on the PADD. “The only better pilot on this ship is you, but things can change.”

Riker took the PADD from her and scanned over it. “That’s quite a list here. But you’re wrong, there are two people better than you, myself and Captain Picard.” ‘Ha, try and get out of that.’ He thought to himself.

“But, you won’t allow the captain to leave the ship.” Carol answered. “You have to watch over his safety to make sure he doesn’t get injured or die. That’s what you’ve done in the past and that’s what you’ll always do.”

“What about Commander Data?” Riker asked.

Carol smiled. “Yes, you’re right.” She said in a reluctant tone.

Riker smiled. “Ha, got ya!”

“Yet, he lacks the unique touch of a human hand and heart. Nothing can replace the warm sensibility of a live breathing human.” Carol replied to the commander’s comment.

Riker was had, time to switch topics. “Very good for you to be checking up on the senior staff. Why?”

Carol took the PADD back from Riker. “Because I wanted to know exactly what I was getting myself involved in. From your records, this is one of the most violent group of people in the fleet, I signed on board and I want to make sure I stay alive.”

Riker nodded. “Very wise of you ensign. Would…”

He wasn’t able to finish his sentence as the voice of the computer interrupted him. “Red Alert, we are nearing the Badlands, all hands report to battle stations.”

Riker looked to Carol. “Come with me.”

The Bridge was full of activity when Riker and Carol arrived from the forward turbolift. Commander Data was at Operations, Commander Worf was at Tactical, and Counselor Troi was at her station next to the captain’s chair. Riker walked up to his chair and sat down, as he did so Captain Picard exited his ready room and took his post.

“What are you doing here?” Picard asked his daughter.

Carol looked to Riker for help, not knowing exactly what to answer the question with. She didn’t want to cause a scene on the bridge of her commanding officers ship.

“I asked her to be here sir.” Riker answered for the young ensign. “I request for her to take Conn.”

Picard acted like he was shocked, although he knew the truth. “Conn! Do you honestly think she could handle this vessel?” He didn’t want to be reminded of the truth, but knew it would be coming his way shortly.

Riker looked to Picard. “You know as well as I do that she is one of the best pilots on this ship.” He paused, looking to Carol. “So please sir, allow her to prove herself to you.” He tapped a few controls on a console as if the matter was closed and he had won the argument.

Captain Picard looked to his first officer and then to Carol, he had to make a decision. Would he allow the child to take the post, or would he make her go someplace else. The thought of executing her came back to mind, but he had to once again shut it out. “Very well.” He said. “Ensign take your station, and don’t mess up.”

Carol walked to the Conn and sat down. “Aye sir. Conn ready.” She quickly scanned over the controls and tried her best to remember how the ship operated from countless simulations over the past few months. It wasn’t too difficult to figure out considering she trained for the position using many different configurations for controls on different ships of the fleet. She just wanted to be prepared for anything and everything that could eventually come her way.

“Computer, stand down from Red Alert, go to Yellow Alert.” At Picard’s command, the Red Alert Klaxon ceased and the ship went to standby mode. “Ensign enter the flight plan into the computer from Commander Data’s configuration and commence with it.”

Carol entered a few commands into the console for a few minutes. “All right, it’s ready to go.” She entered a few more commands and the ship went further into the Badlands. After a few moments passed, the ship rocked violently throwing a few crewmen down to the ground. The Red Alert Klaxon went off once again.

“Report!” Picard yelled over the klaxon.

Data worked over a few controls to make a report for his commanding officer. “Hull rupture on Deck 21, engineering crew in response, no casualties reported. Massive damage to ablative hull armor near the Port Warp Nacelle.” He paused while looking over a few more controls, making another report. “Sir, I recommend we fly by manual. Auto pilot is too dangerous.”

“Very well, ensign continue the search pattern using manual controls.” Picard ordered. “I’ll be in my ready room, contact me when you find that ship.”

“Aye sir.” Carol nodded her head.

As Picard left the bridge, a sigh of relief entered the room. His crew was happy to have him gone for a moment, put simply it wasn’t easy having a daughter of the captain on board. It would put a lot of people at ease if Carol were to die of some unknown, or even a known, means.

Picard sat in his ready room thinking over the past few months and what occurred. He stared at a blank monitor on his desk simply thinking, nothing more. “Why did she have to come to my ship.” He said to himself, “What purpose does she have being here?” He never asked for a daughter, never wanted the opportunity for one. Now one had presented itself, and he still wanted nothing to do with her. As Picard thought to himself, he replayed the events of the past few days over in his mind. Was he too hard on her, or was it just the right amount of pressure? She wanted to prove herself, he simply gave her the chance to.

“Computer, bring up service record for Ensign Carol Picard.” Picard said with a harsh tone in his voice. The computer brought up the requested information and scrolled through the few lines of text. As Picard read over them, he noticed several interesting remarks by Carol’s teachers at the Academy. They all noted her as a bright, intelligent student that would probably go far in Starfleet. They thought very highly of her learning abilities and willingness to work with others. Considering that she was new to the vessel and Starfleet itself, only being graduated a few months ago, her file was exemplary. Of course that wasn’t much to go on. Picard needed more information, but how to get that information…

“Picard to Counselor Troi.” He said, activating a comm unit.

“Troi here.” The ship counselor’s voice came through the line.

“Please report to my ready room, and bring Doctor Crusher along. I need to talk to the both of you. Picard out.” He continued.

A few moments passed and the ready room doors opened allowing Doctor Crusher and Counselor Troi to enter. When Picard saw them, he smiled and gestured for them to sit down.

“I would like to know the status of the crew.” Picard started. “How are they handling the transition?”

Troi and Crusher looked to each other and then back to Picard.

“As far as I can tell.” Crusher said, “They are doing well physically. This is the best I’ve ever seen this crew at, they’re healthy and the stress levels aren’t too high.”

“And what about you Counselor?”

Troi looked to Picard. “Captain, this isn’t why you wanted to talk to us. I know your thoughts.” She paused, allowing Picard a moment to think. “You want to talk about Carol.” She stood from the couch and walked over to Picard’s desk. Troi turned his desktop viewer around. Carol’s file was still on the screen. “You’ve been wondering about her ever since she stepped into your ready room the first day you met.” Troi said, taking things deeper. “You weren’t ready for this type of change, no one on this ship is really ready for the changes they are required to make. But things are moving along, sure it can be difficult at times, but we are adjusting.” She turned the viewer back around so Picard could see the file again.

Picard stared at the image of Carol. “Can I trust her?”

“You tell me.” Crusher said.

Picard stood from his desk “I’m not certain. Everything tells me not to trust her, that she’s just another ensign. But then there’s something that says it’s all right.”

Troi smiled. “Then I would suggest you follow the latter feeling and allow her to continue her duties onboard the Enterprise.”

Picard Nodded his head, “All right… I’ll follow your suggestion.” He walked over to his desk and looked at the file again and after a moment he turned back to Troi and Crusher. “Maybe I’m growing soft…” And then shook his head as if to brush the thought off his mind. “If you’ll excuse me, there’s something I need to attend to.” Picard said, excusing himself and exiting his ready room.

Down in the brig, Lieutenant Allen sat alone in the dark. He was thinking of what a mess he was in and was afraid what Picard would do to him, if he remembered he was in the holding cell. It had been several hours since Picard had ordered him to the cell, and in those hours he had a lot of time to think. The darkness was broken when Picard entered the room and ordered the computer to turn on the lights. He walked over to the cell which held his prisoner.

“Lieutenant Allen.” Picard said in a cold tone. “How are things going?”

Allen didn’t even dare to stare into Picard’s face, he was afraid. “Doing okay Captain.” His speech was broken up a little.

“Computer, drop the force field on cell 3.” At Picard’s command the force field dropped allowing him access to Allen.

Allen just stared at the ground. “What can I do for you sir?”

Picard pulled a phaser out from its holster that was on his uniform and pressed a few buttons making the lieutenant even more nervous. “All I want is your obedience, nothing more.”

Allen stared at the phaser and realized that there was only one decision he could make. If he denied Picard’s order he would soon be dead and if he followed Picard and obeyed his command he would live. “All right captain, you win. I’ll do anything, anything at all.” He replied.

Picard smiled and put the phaser away. “Good, you’re reinstated. When we find the vessel we’re looking for, I want you to be on the away team.”

“Sir?”

“I need to see if I can trust you lieutenant.” Picard said.

“Red Alert…” The computer stated for all of the ship to hear. “Captain Picard please report to the bridge.”

* * *

“Report” Picard ordered as he entered the bridge and walked over to his command chair.

“Five Maquis vessels are on an intercept course, their weapons are locked and ready to fire.” Riker answered.

Picard nodded “Open a channel.” ‘What do the Maquis want with us?’ He thought to himself.

“Channel open.” Worf said.

“Approaching Maquis vessels this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise, you will drop your weapons lock and state your business or we will be forced to fire.” Picard stated.

“No response.” Riker said. “They’re firing weapons.”

Picard watched on the screen as a full assault on the Enterprise took place from the Maquis raiders. As their weapons approached the ship and hit the shields something unexpected happened.

“Warning, shields down to 96 percent.” The computer said.

“Report.” Picard yelled over the computer voice.

“Their weapons appear to modulate themselves to our shield frequency if this continues, they will be penetrated in a few minutes.” Worf said.

“Fire at will!” Picard ordered.

Worf pressed a few buttons and fired a full spread of photon torpedoes at the approaching vessels with no help. “Our weapons are having no effect.”

“The plasma storms in the area seem to be affecting our weapons captain.” Data replied. “I am working on a solution.”

Picard pressed a few buttons on his console to view the damage and was not pleased with what he saw. “We need to find a way around their weapons.” He pressed a few more buttons. “Head back into Federation space, maybe they’ll break off their attack.”

As the Enterprise headed towards Federation space, the attack didn’t cease, it just became stronger from the opposing side. Soon enough the Enterprise was crippled and there was nothing Picard or his officers could do about it.

“Warning, warp core micro fracture, breech in two minutes.” The computer stated and then without taking a breath another klaxon sounded. “Warning, shields failing.” And yet another one. “Warning weapons off-line.”

“Captain, I suggest we abandon ship.” Riker said. “I know this isn’t your way of doing things, but its our only choice.”

Picard nodded. “Understood.” He paused, “Computer, eject warp core.” He was going to try to save his ship at any cost.

“Warp ejection systems off-line.” The computer replied. “Warp core breech in one minute.”

Picard was not pleased, this was a good ship and a good crew to go with it. He watched on the view screen as more vessels appeared out of the plasma storms ready to take the ship. He stood from his chair and listened as a commline opened.

“Attention Federation vessel, this is Rukal of the Maquis, you are ordered to surrender your vessel or be destroyed.” A man said with a cold dark voice.

Picard looked to his first officer. “Never.” He paused. “Computer send an evacuation order through the ship.”

“Attention all hands, abandon ship. This is not a drill, repeat abandon ship.” The computer ordered.

As the bridge crew headed for the escape pods Picard took one last look around his vessel. He walked over to the dedication plaque took it off the wall and headed for a turbolift. “Goodbye old friend.” He said as the lift took him away.

Outside the vessel in a runabout Picard and his senior officers watched as over twenty Maquis ships swarmed their vessel. It was like watching wolves approaching a prey that they had captured… and killed.

Near Riker a panel beeped. “Captain, the warp core breech is contained.”

“What?” Picard asked, “How can that be?”

Data checked over a few readings, “I do not know sir.” He continued to look for answers in the computer. “I suggest you activate the auto-destruct systems.”

Picard nodded. “Computer, link to the Enterprise main computer.”

“Link established.”

“Set auto-destruct and set for five seconds.” Picard said.

“Unable to comply, auto-destruct systems off-line.”

“I need sugges…” Picard started to say but realized something else was happening. He couldn’t believe what was about to take place. “What are they doing?”

Outside, the Maquis vessels were continuing to fire on the Sovereign-Class vessel damaging it with each blow of a photon torpedo. After a few moments the Enterprise exploded with a bright flash of light that comes from a warp core explosion.

A commline opened “This is Rukal from the Maquis. We could have easily taken your vessel, but this does not interest us. We have spared your lives, go back to your leaders and inform them of this incident. Tell them to leave us alone.” The comm channel closed leaving a silence in the air.

“Captain.” Data said “They were not interested in the ship, they only wanted to make an example out of us.”

Picard nodded. “Yes commander. They did a good job of it too.” He looked down to the plaque that was in his hands. “But we will see them again.” He looked to Worf. “Send out an S.O.S. to Starfleet.”

Worf nodded his head and complied with the captain’s orders. “Message sent.”

Picard tapped his commbadge “Computer begin recording.”

    Captain’s Log Stardate 52310.4:
    The Enterprise has been destroyed by Maquis weapons fire in the Badlands. The crew of the late Starship Enterprise is waiting to be rescued by Starfleet and are heading towards Earth. Let the record show that she was the finest ship in the fleet. End Log.

Five Days Later

The senior staff of the Enterprise-E was still waiting to be rescued. The past five days had not been pleasant, Picard never liked waiting especially when he was in a helpless situation like this. He still held the Enterprise’s dedication plaque in his hands. He had read over the ship’s motto several times in his head. “…to boldly go where no one has gone before.” But at what cost? His thoughts were interrupted as a vessel came into range.

“Identify” Picard ordered.

“The computer can not identify the vessel.” Data replied. “Although from its design it appears to be one of ours. Attempting to hail them.” He pressed a few buttons but with no success. “No response captain.” He paused and checked over some more records. “They are scanning us.”

“Open a channel.” Picard said. “This is Captain Picard of the former Starship Enterprise to the Federation vessel. We are in need of assistance.”

The ship rocked, something was holding it. Picard looked out the window and noted that a tractor beam had their runabout in a tight grip and wasn’t about to let go, as he continued to look out the window he could see that a few escape pods were locked in tractor beams as well. He looked back to his crew. “Arm yourselves, be prepared for anything.”

A few moments passed and another panel beeped. “They have completed their scans of us sir.” Data said. “They are locking onto us with transporter beams.”

The Enterprise senior staff vanished in transporter beams as well as the rest of the Enterprise crew.

One Month Later

Captain Picard and the rest of his crew woke up at Starfleet Headquarters in San Francisco. As they awoke a doctor walked over to them. “Good you’re awake.” He proceeded to make scans of Picard and his officers. “We thought you’d never wake up.”

Picard was puzzled. “What? Where are we?”

“You’re on Earth captain, but don’t worry about that just yet, I need to finish running scans.” The doctor replied.

A man approached Picard, it was an admiral. “Captain Picard.”

Picard stood from a cot. “Admiral Lowry. How is my crew?”

Lowry handed a PADD to Picard, on it was medical information. “Your crew appears to be fine.” He pressed a few buttons on the PADD. “Captain, I’ve looked over your logs on the destruction of the Enterprise… How did you make it back?”

“Admiral?” Picard asked.

“Escape pods can’t travel very fast, it should of taken you over six months to make it back to Earth, and yet you made it back in ten days.” Lowry continued. “And when you did get back, you were all unconscious.”

“Didn’t a vessel bring us home?” Picard asked. “A vessel picked us up.”

Lowry shook his head. “I have no record of a vessel, we didn’t even have time to send a vessel out to search for you.” He pointed to the PADD. “See for yourself.”

Picard was even more puzzled. “I don’t know how to answer that admiral. I assure you, a vessel did pick us up. They locked us in a tractor beam and then beamed us aboard their vessel.” He paused trying to remember more, but he couldn’t “The next thing I recall is we woke up here.”

Lowry nodded his head. “All right, lay back down and get some rest. I’ll talk with you again when you’re fully recovered.”

Picard started to shake his head no but stopped when Lowry gave him a glance that said ‘That’s an order.’ Picard sat back down on the cot, a nurse walked up to him. “Sir, this was found on the runabout.” She handed him the dedication plaque for his former vessel.

Picard nodded. “Thank you ensign.” He then laid back down on the cot with the plaque in his hands and thought about what had had happened over the past few months. He had lost a ship under his command, again. Picard wondered how long it would take for Starfleet to give him another command. With that, he fell back asleep.

The End
